A Revelation is a source of information that is given to some people and meant to share with others from a government, influential people or a supernatural deity. In monotheistic literature, a revelation is given by God to a prophet or someone God wants to make a prophet and it is supposed to be told to others. In this page, I will explain John’s Revelation from God that is also the last book in the Bible also coincdidently called Revelation. 
 
 In Catholicism and other Christian denominations, John is also called Saint John and was Jesus Christ’s 3rd/4th called disciple. John wrote a Gospel called The Gospel according to John. He also wrote 1st, 2nd and 3rd John. The most famous verse in the Bible was written by him in John 3:16 during Christ’s conversation with the pharisee Nicodemus. John wrote the Book of Revelation and I will explain it now. 
 
 In the beginning of Revelation, it is important to know that John was currently in exile in the island of Patmos, an island in the Aegean Sea and part of Greece’s territory now, because he refused to look at Emperor Domitian as Lord and God. John explains this and he also says he saw the Heavens, so we can suggest that he was writing what he saw while having his revelation or vision —whichever you choose to call it.  
 
 I’m not going to explain every little detail, just an overview. Jesus tells him to send a message to 7 churches in Asia Minor, that is Turkey. These are Ephesus, Symrna, Pergammum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea. He explains He knows the suffering and He is watching over them. 
 
 A few chapters in and we see Apocalyptic literature. This was very common in the writing of Jews and Christians during the great persecution of Early Christians in the Roman Empire before Emperor Constantine made Christianity the state religion. You see a lot of beasts and creatures and then the greatly feared Antichrist. 
 
 I think now I should explain the 2 witnesses and the Antichrist. The 2 witnesses will be 2 prophets who God will raise from the dead and they will preach for three and a half years when the Antichrist will come and kill them both. Then because they have been slaughtered people from all around the world will drink and exchange gifts out of merriness and joyfulness because those 2 witnesses have died and nobody can shine the light of their sins. For three and a half days, they will not be allowed to be given their final dignity and put into graves. Then after 3 and a half days, God will raise them up from the dead and everyone will be shocked (imaginable) also will be ascending into Heaven. 
 
 The Antichrist is prominent in Revelation and is spoken a lot about. Christian and Jewish elders believe it will be an influential government that will trick everyone. But for everyone else its probably this tall, well-built ''man'' who will slaughter the Jews just when he has gained their trust. 
 
 That’s all I have now and I will come back soon with Revelation PART 2 soon. Have a great day! and I hoped you enjoyed reading this 
 
 [[Category:Theology]]